These are challenging times, aren't they?
Think of the challenges this pandemic has created.
It has closed down businesses, delayed school openings, postponed sporting events and more,
but it has not stopped the flow of spiritual food.
Jesus knew long ago that his followers would find themselves in the time of the end, facing
the most distressing period in human history.
And he assured them that through a faithful slave, they would receive food at the proper
time, which would give them hope and strengthen them to endure.
True, we've had to adjust how we prepare and serve the spiritual food.
However, we've continued to receive the watch, share, and awake magazines, meeting
workbooks, new original songs and videos, an entire convention program, and even the release
of the New World translation in more languages.
This is exactly what Jehovah promised he would provide, as stated at Isaiah 65 and verse
13.
Therefore, this is what the sovereign Lord Jehovah says.
Look, my servants will eat, but you will go hungry.
Look, my servants will drink, but you will go thirsty.
Look, my servants will rejoice, but you will suffer shame.
Those words aren't just a reassurance, they're a promise.
Despite all the chaos in the world around us, we will have the spiritual food that we need
to stay strong.
So you might wonder, what adjustments has the governing body made to provide spiritual
food at the proper time, despite the pandemic?
How have we seen Jehovah's blessing on these adjustments?
And on a personal level, what can each one of us do to show our appreciation for these
provisions?
Restrictions and lockdowns haven't stopped the work of writing and publishing spiritually
upbuilding food.
One example of this is the recent update to the study edition of the New World Translation
of the Holy Scriptures.
Ideas and Ephesians are now available in English, with over 340 new study notes, a video,
media gallery items, and new articles in the appendix.
Now how about JW.org website?
The brothers have been hard at work there too.
Articles such as, what does the Bible say about pandemics?
And how to deal with isolation have been added?
Historical is about distance learning, domestic abuse, and alcohol consumption have also been
added.
The very issues that are on many people's minds right now.
How has the pandemic affected the production of our various video projects?
As you can imagine, with Bethel facilities on lockdown and with physical distancing measures
in place, we've had to rethink how videos can be safely produced.
In the following video report, Brother Bob Batco, a member of the Central America Branch
Committee, explains adjustments the regional video team has made.
To keep the cameras rolling, the regional video team hosted here at the branch had
to overcome some pretty big challenges.
One of them was casting.
We couldn't invite local brothers and sisters to come in to play roles, nor could the
Bethel team go out to shoot on location.
So what did it require, adapting to the local circumstances?
That meant shooting on Bethel property with Bethel personnel.
Now that may seem limiting, but they found solutions, the green screen.
That meant that they could shoot in studio and the actor could virtually be anywhere.
When working on a set here, rigorous safety precautions need to be taken.
Casting crew members get their temperature checked at the beginning, and the end of each
day, and everyone, everyone wears face masks, including the actors, unless they're being
filmed.
The actors maintain physical distancing, win with anyone other than their mate or roommate.
To minimize contact with a hair and makeup team, they've taken advantage of video conferencing.
So they would teach the wives how to put beards on their husbands in their Bethel rooms.
This way only touch ups need to be done on set, and even then, personal protective equipment
is used.
And everything is disinfected before and after each session.
In doing all of this, there was a wonderful spirit of unity.
During the lockdown, no commuters have been able to come in, so many from other Bethel
departments have been made available to help with the work.
Some are helping on the production team, others by sewing wardrobes, building sets, and
nobody went hungry, all the meals were provided.
In all of this, it's obvious that Jehovah bless not just these arrangements, but also
the governing body, so that they could provide the much needed spiritual food right on time.
As you can see, we've had to adjust many aspects of video production, and we're grateful
for the hard work of all involved.
In fact, all of our video teams, including the ones at World Headquarters, are taking
similar steps to keep production going while remaining safe.
But do you see the point?
The menu of spiritual food prepared well before the pandemic will be presented just as
planned.
You might say we've had to adjust some of the kitchen utensils and cooking methods, but
the meal itself is unchanged and just as nourishing, so you won't miss a thing.
Another vital part of the process in providing spiritual food to Jehovah's people worldwide
is translation, and that hasn't stopped either.
Animation teams have been able to continue their work by video conference, and the results
have been thrilling.
For example, since the start of the pandemic, the new world translation has been released
in whole or in part in 19 languages.
Some of these releases had been planned in conjunction with regional conventions that
were to be held later this year.
So when the decision was made to present a global convention program by video, the teaching
committee asks if these newly translated Bibles could be released before the convention began
in July.
That way, translators could use the new Bibles when translating the convention program,
and publishers could follow along with all six sessions using their newly released Bibles.
Well, through a tremendous effort and with Jehovah's blessing, 13 Bibles were released
in digital format as special meetings in the weeks leading up to the convention.
You can imagine how thrilled the brothers were to receive these Bibles in their local
languages just in time for the convention.
One of those new translations was in the O'Roma language.
In this video report, Brother Delroy Williamson, a member of the Ethiopia Branch Committee,
describes the challenges that they faced and how they overcame them with Jehovah's help.
We were very excited to learn that despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the complete new world
translation would be released digitally in the O'Roma language.
So all congregations in Ethiopia were invited to attend a special meeting which would be
streamed countrywide over the internet.
But just five days before the release date, civil unrest broke out in the country, and
due to this, the government shut down the internet.
Suddenly there was no way to access the program online.
But this is where we really saw Jehovah's hand in matters.
When the program was being planned, the branch committee received approval to pre-record
the release talks and to broadcast the program via satellite.
This will enable the meeting to reach the most distant parts of our branch territory.
Well, that satellite broadcast became the main way for over 12,000 of our brothers
to view the special meeting.
And in the areas of the country not covered by the satellite, the brothers listened to
the program by telephone.
Just two days after the program, internet access was restored and the brothers with an internet
connection downloaded the Bible and then transferred the files to those without internet access.
It was really face strengthening to see how despite a pandemic, despite unrest, despite
the country being in a state of emergency, our spiritual food supply continued to flow.
What a blessing for our Roma-speaking brothers and sisters.
Besides new Bibles, our translation teams have also been busy with other projects.
For example, the 2020 governing body update reports, such as the one you're watching
right now, have been a landmark in simultaneous communication.
The second report was uploaded in about 400 languages simultaneously.
That's the largest simultaneous multi-language video release in our history.
And this turned out to be a dry run for an even bigger task.
The first day of the 2020 Always Rejoice Convention was also uploaded in about 400 languages
within 24 hours of English.
Preparing translations for every talk was a massive effort on a very tight schedule.
Many local brothers used their own resources to assist and worked tirelessly to provide
quality translations.
In many cases, the dubbing of the talks was so well-sinked that some brothers actually
thought the talks were being delivered in their language.
Here's just one example from Kenya, in the Kikamba language.
I learned your fluke awa kukuyama kuy.
Why we were at the local kongrui si kui kanehsa?
Now don't be fooled.
Brother Shaffer hasn't mastered Kikamba.
But thanks to the skills of our translation team, the results were convincing enough for
some to say, it's so wonderful these brothers learned our language.
Well regarding all this work being done in writing, video production, translation and
more, we might ask, how has all this been possible, especially now?
We find the answer at Zechariah chapter 4 and verse 6.
Not by a military force nor by power, but by my spirit says Jehovah of armies.
None of this would be possible without Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
Have them we all show appreciation for the way we're being spiritually fed during this
difficult time?
Consider three ways.
First and foremost, take full advantage of the spiritual banquet that Jehovah is providing.
Read the Bible every day and to the extent that you can, read each new magazine and publication
and watch each new video available in your language.
Not long ago, receiving our spiritual food digitally would have been hard to even imagine.
And yet now, we probably wonder how we'd be coping with this pandemic without tools like
JW Library.
Jehovah has been preparing us over the years to be ready for something like this.
And the older ones in our congregation have gotten more comfortable with their electronic
devices.
Even though some of our brothers have very limited access to this technology, just think
about how much these tools are helping us as an organization to study, share and distribute
God's Word in the face of this crisis.
Keeping ourselves well fed spiritually will help us to focus our minds on what Paul
described at Philippians chapter 4 and verse 8.
Whatever things are of serious concern, whatever things are righteous, whatever things are
chased, whatever things are lovable, whatever things are well spoken of, whatever things
are virtuous and whatever things are praiseworthy, continue considering these things.
Second, we can show our appreciation by praying for those working hard to support the Kingdom
work at world headquarters and in the branches and remote translation offices around the
world.
Many Bethel families have been on lockdown for over five months.
Our Bethel family members have willingly obeyed the direction given in order to protect
the Kingdom work and the flow of spiritual food.
We are very proud of them and truly appreciate their cooperation as well as that of their
families and congregations.
Third, we can be generous with our spiritual food.
Have a full share in preaching and teaching despite the limitations we are facing right
now.
Also, if you find a verse you love in your Bible reading or a point that stands out in an
article or video, don't keep it to yourself, share the good things Jehovah has given us
with your brothers and sisters.
One aspect of our spiritual food is our songs.
While you may have missed singing together at your meetings or the convention, our brothers
and sisters are still finding ways to sing together virtually.
The following video clip of the song, Our Joy Eternally, was made by brothers and sisters
serving as remote volunteers in France while they were under lockdown.
Each person recorded his or her part individually and then they were edited together to create
one virtual chorus.
I am sure you agree that that was a very refreshing way to end our program.
Our love for Jehovah and our determination to live by his standards are being tested
each day and yet because we are being well fed spiritually, we have everything we need
to meet those tests with joy.
Dear brothers and sisters, please be assured of the warm love of the governing body
and our prayers in your behalf.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.